---
title: CTO and Lead Developer
subtitle: Remote Ham Radio
date: 2013 – Present
---

As co-founder and CTO of RemoteHamRadio, independently developed, maintained, and supported the full-stack web application, associated hardware, and services.

The groundbreaking service for amateur radio operators provides voice communication and complex remote hardware control in a real-time browser dashboard, providing instant access to dozens of physical radio installations across the globe. In addition to product improvements, fixes, and deployments, I supported the day-to-day technical challenges, wrote documentation, and provided customer support.

#### Front-End

<ul class="list-tech dots-between my-1">
    <li>Vue.js</li>
    <li>Electron</li>
    <li>WebRTC</li>
    <li>WebSockets</li>
    <li>WebAudio</li>
    <li>Canvas</li>
</ul>

The primary user interface is a Vue.js SPA that communicates with
the back-end via WebSockets and RESTful APIs. WebRTC establishes
voice and data channels to the remote locations, utilizing STUN/TURN
servers to traverse NATs.

An Electron app for Windows and macOS provides customers with the
ability to connect local software and hardware into the system.

#### Back-End

<ul class="list-tech dots-between my-1 ">
    <li>Phoenix / Elixir</li>
    <li>Ruby on Rails</li>
    <li>PostgreSQL</li>
</ul>

The mesh network of horizontally-scalable, hot-reloadable Phoenix
servers routes WebSocket traffic between the users and the remote
sites. Ruby on Rails provides the administrative interface for user
account management. And it's all backed by PostgreSQL.

#### DevOps

<ul class="list-tech dots-between my-1">
    <li>EC2</li>
    <li>ELB</li>
    <li>S3</li>
    <li>Route 53</li>
    <li>CloudWatch</li>
    <li>Grafana</li>
    <li>Ubuntu</li>
</ul>

Web servers run on Ubuntu on AWS EC2 instances, load-balanced for
performance and redundancy. Deployments are handled by Cloud66 and
shell scripts, and metrics are piped to AWS CloudWatch and displayed
in Grafana.

#### Hardware

<ul class="list-tech dots-between my-1">
    <li>Ruby</li>
    <li>WebSockets</li>
    <li>Circuit / PCB Design</li>
</ul>

Hardware control is implemented in a Ruby (non-Rails) application
server, controlling dozens of different devices via serial ports,
HTTP, TCP, and UDP.

Custom hardware was designed from the ground-up for use in-house and
by customers.
